Up until this point,
the dynamics we've discussed have all occurred in
two-dimensions and they rise at vertical plane.
But real quarts live in three-dimensions.
The good news is that all of the control concepts related to cascaded
PID control are equally applicable in 3D as they were in 2D.
The big difference is in the math required to describe the dynamics.
Things can get a little tricky when we have to keep
track of the vehicles roll, pitch, and yaw.
Before we dive into tracking the state of a 3D vehicle,
let's do a brief recap of the approach we used in 2D.
We started by defining a state for the vehicle.
The state describes the minimal amount of information we need to keep around to
be able to predict the motion of the vehicle from one time step to the next.
For 2D, the state variables where the vehicle is lateral in y-position,
vertical set position, and roll angle, which we call phi.
We also had to track the velocities associated with each of those variables,
which gave us a total of six state variables.
Next, we had to figure out the forces and moments acting on the vehicle.
Then we had to convert these forces and moments
into accelerations and angular accelerations,
which we did by applying f is equal to m times a,
and its rotational equivalent.
Once we knew the accelerations and angular accelerations,
we had to integrate once to figure out how these caused the y,
z, and y velocities to change.
Then we integrated the updated velocities to figure out how the positions changed.
You captured your knowledge of these dynamics by implementing an advanced state method,
which I'd like you to take a minute to review now.
The advanced state function you will write for
the 3D dynamics in this lesson will look very similar in many ways.
So some of the mathematical details will change.